---
sidebar_label: Delegators
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Delegations in the Core Ecosystem
---

## Overview of Delegation
In the context of the Core blockchain, delegation is a fundamental mechanism that allows BTC miners and BTC and CORE token holders to participate actively in the network's security and governance without being validators themselves. This process involves the delegators entrusting their voting and operational power to validators, who then use the delegated resources (BTC hash power, BTC, and CORE) to participate in the network's consensus process and governance decisions.

## Types of Delegation on the Core Blockchain

1. **BTC/CORE Delegation to Validators:**

    * **Purpose:** This type of delegation allows BTC and CORE token holders to support specific validators by delegating their tokens to them. In return, validators use the aggregated power to secure the network, validate transactions, and produce blocks.
    * **Benefits:** Delegators share in the rewards earned by their chosen validators, receiving a portion of the transaction fees and block rewards in proportion to their stake.
    * **How to Delegate BTC:** Core allows BTC holders to delegate their assets to validators on Core through Self-Custodial BTC Staking, which allows that to not only earn staking rewards but also maintian comlete ownership of their assets. For more details, refer to the detailed guide on [how to delegate BTC on Core](../Learn/products/btc-staking/stake-btc-guide.md).
    * **How to Delegate CORE:** Core allows CORE holders to delegate their assets to validators on Core through a simple delegation mechanism, this allows them to participate in the Core netowrk's security and governance. For more details, refer to the detailed guide on [how to delegate CORE](./delegating-core.md).

2. **Hash Power Delegation from BTC Miners:**

    * **Purpose:** Bitcoin miners can delegate a portion of their computational hash power to validators on the Core network. This unique form of delegation leverages the security and work already being done on the Bitcoin network to enhance the security of the Core.
    * **Process:** Miners include specific metadata in the Bitcoin blocks they mine, indicating their support for a Core validator, thereby linking the security of both networks.
    * **How to Delegate Hash:** Core provides the BTC miners to delegate their hashpower to validators on Core, enabling them to earn staking rewards from the Core ecossytem in the form of additioanl CORE tokens. For more details, refer to the detailed guide on [how to delegate Hash Poweer to Core Validators](./delegating-hash.md).

## Importance of Delegations on the Core Blockchain

1. **Enhanced Network Security:** By allowing a broad base of token holders to delegate their assets (BTC and CORE) to validators, Core ensures that the responsibility and power of maintaining the network are distributed among many participants, thereby avoiding centralization and increasing security.

2. **Democratization of the Network:** Delegation democratizes access to the decision-making processes within Core, allowing anyone holding BTC or CORE tokens, regardless of the amount, to participate in governance and consensus. This inclusive approach fosters a diverse and robust governance structure.

3. **Incentivization and Participation:** Delegation incentivizes both validators and BTC/CORE token holders by aligning their interests. Validators are motivated to act in the best interest of the network to maintain their reputation and continue receiving delegated tokens, while delegators benefit from the rewards generated by their validators' activities.

4. **Scalability of Consensus Process:** Delegation allows the network to handle more transactions and accommodate more participants without requiring each to run full nodes. This scalability is crucial for maintaining high performance as the Core ecosystem grows.

5. **Facilitates Staking Flexibility:** Delegation provides token holders with the flexibility to contribute to network security without the need to maintain the infrastructure required for running a full validating node, lowering the barrier for participation.

6. **Facilitation of Liquid Democracy:** Delegation in Core facilitates a form of liquid democracy, where token holders can directly choose their representatives (validators) in the consensus process or can change their delegation based on performance and trust metrics. This fluid governance model adapts quickly to changes and reflects the current sentiment of the community.


## Conclusion
Delegation is one of the key fundamentals of the Core ecosystem, enabling it to maintain a secure, decentralized, and efficient blockchain network. By leveraging the strengths of both DPoS and elements of PoW through the innovative Satoshi Plus consensus mechanism, Core not only enhances its operational capabilities but also aligns closely with the decentralized ethos of blockchain technology. This model of delegation ensures that all participants, from individual token holders to large-scale miners, have a stake in the network’s success and governance, making Core a robust and dynamic blockchain platform.